>> Nina Zakharenko: We can also use
conditional statements like if statements
in our list comprehensions to
make them even more powerful.
So before I had square, right, for
num in range of 6,
I printed out num x num.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What if I only
wanted to do this for the even numbers?
>> Nina Zakharenko: I would
use an if statement, and
a quick thing about
the condition we're gonna use.
Does everyone know what
the modulo operation is?
Modulo, okay.
So I'll explain it very quickly.
Modulo operation is the remainder
that you get from division.
So 6 modulo 2, you do modulo with
the percentage sign, it's gonna be 0.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We wanna check
if our number is divisible by two,
that's how we know that it's even.
But there's one little gotcha here.
We learned about truthiness yesterday,
right?
And that we can quickly check
the truthiness of something by passing it
into bull.
So we know that positive
numbers are truthy,
we know that negative
numbers are truthy as well.
Which numbers are falsey in Python?
>> Speaker 2: 0.
>> Nina Zakharenko: 0, so
we want to check if 6 is module 2.
What if we forget to do an extra check and
actually check if it's 0,
will this expression be truthy or falsey?
So it will be falsey, right?
If I check by passing this whole
expression into 2 it's false, right?
So what we actually want to check is
if the number modulo 2 is equal to 0.
This is a little kinda subtle bug that
still gets me occasionally in my own
programming.
So this is one of those cases that
we want to explicitly check or
we are gonna get the wrong result, okay.
Going back to our squares here and
you can just use the up arrow
to scroll up in the raffle.
My conditional goes on the right side.
So first, I have my result,
next I have my for loop, and
last in the formula I have my if
statement, I put my condition here.
So based on what we learned above,
how would I check,
how would I only return this
if the numbers were even?
What would my expression be?
>> Speaker 2: If num % 2 = the quantity 0.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Equals quantity 0,
right?
So that will only give
me the even squares.
Let's say I had this list of even squares,
and
I'm gonna assign it to a variable so that
I can work with it a little bit easier.
Knowing everything that we know now, we
know that these even squares are integers,
how would we print out a comma separated
list of these values as a string?
How can we combine these operations?
What are the different pieces?
>> Nina Zakharenko: How
do we take a list and
combine it into comma separated values?
>> Speaker 2: With join.
>> Nina Zakharenko: With join.
And what is on the left
side of the join equation?
>> Speaker 2: The delimiter.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The delimiter.
That's right.
What am I joining on?
We know that even squares
is my list of numbers and
that join takes a list, or
list comprehension, right?
Or list comprehension returns the list.
So what am I looping over?
>> Speaker 2: Even squares?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, I can say for
even_square in even_squares,
it's what I'm looping over.
But I know that join takes
a list of strings, and
we have a list of integers,
how do we make that conversion?
>> Speaker 2: Would str(even_square)?
>> Nina Zakharenko: That's right,
str(even_square).
That converts from any other type
to its string representation.
So now we have a list of strings and
we can call join on it.
If I press Enter here, we get our result.
That's kinda how you start thinking
putting some of these pieces together.